[PowerPoint] (slides) APIs for inserting and deleting slides (#2358)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/powerpoint/insert-slides-into-presentation.md

---
title: Insert and delete slides in a PowerPoint presentation
description: 'Learn how to insert slides from one presentation into another and how to delete slides.'
ms.date: 12/04/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Insert and delete slides in a PowerPoint presentation

A PowerPoint add-in can insert slides from one presentation (in base64 format) into the current presentation by using PowerPoint's application-specific JavaScript library. You can control whether the inserted slides keep the formatting of the source presentation or the formatting of the target presentation. You can also delete slides from the presentation.

> There are two major steps to inserting slides from one presentation into another.

Reviewer: Are there minor steps? Maybe we could remove "major" so it doesn't seem like we're hiding extra work.
```suggestion
There are two steps to inserting slides from one presentation into another.
```

> 1. Convert the source presentation file (.pptx) into a base64-formatted file.

Reviewer: Would it be more accurate to say "base64-formatted string"?

1. Use the `insertSlidesFromBase64` method to insert one or more slides from the base64 file into the current presentation.

## Convert the source presentation to base64

> There are many ways to convert a file to base64. Which programming language and library you use, and whether to convert on the server-side of your add-in or the client-side is determined by your scenario. Most commonly, you'll do the conversion in JavaScript on the client-side by using a [FileReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/FileReader) object. The following is an example.

Reviewer: Minor suggestion to improve the flow.
```suggestion
There are many ways to convert a file to base64. Which programming language and library you use, and whether to convert on the server-side of your add-in or the client-side is determined by your scenario. Most commonly, you'll do the conversion in JavaScript on the client-side by using a [FileReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/FileReader) object. The following example shows this practice.
```

    ```html
    <section>
        <p>Select a PowerPoint presentation from which to insert slides</p>
        <form>
            <input type="file" id="file" />
        </form>
    </section>
    ```

    This markup adds the UI in the following screenshot to the page:

    ![Screenshot showing an HTML file type input control preceded by an instructional sentence reading "Select a PowerPoint presentation from which to insert slides". The control consists of a button labelled "Choose file" followed by the sentence "No file chosen".](../images/powerpoint-html-file-input-control.png)

    > [!NOTE]
    > There are many other ways to get a PowerPoint file. For example, if the file is stored on OneDrive or SharePoint, you can use Microsoft Graph to download it. For more information, see [Working with files in Microsoft Graph](/graph/api/resources/onedrive) and [Access Files with Microsoft Graph](/learn/modules/msgraph-access-file-data/).

2. Add the following code to the add-in's JavaScript to assign a function to the input control's `change` event. (You create the `storeFileAsBase64` function in the next step.)

    ```javascript
    $("#file").change(storeFileAsBase64);
    ```

> 3. Add the following code. About this code, note the following:

Reviewer: Nit: This flow sounds better to me and gets rid of the comma.
```suggestion
3. Add the following code. Note the following about this code,:
```

    - The `reader.readAsDataURL` method converts the file to base64 and stores it in the `reader.result` property. When the method completes, it triggers the `onload` event handler.
    - The `onload` event handler trims metadata off of the encoded file and stores the encoded string in a global variable.
    - The base64-encoded string is stored globally because it will be read by another function that you create in a later step.

    ```javascript
    let chosenFileBase64;

    async function storeFileAsBase64() {
        const reader = new FileReader();

        reader.onload = async (event) => {
            const startIndex = reader.result.toString().indexOf("base64,");
            const copyBase64 = reader.result.toString().substr(startIndex + 7);

            chosenFileBase64 = copyBase64;
        };

        const myFile = document.getElementById("file") as HTMLInputElement;
        reader.readAsDataURL(myFile.files[0]);
    }
    ```

## Insert slides with insertSlidesFromBase64

> You insert slides from another PowerPoint presentation into the current presentation with the [Presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.presentation#insertslidesfrombase64-base64file--options-) method. The following is a simple example in which all of the slides from the source presentation are inserted at the beginning of the current presentation and the inserted slides keep the formatting of the source file. Note that `chosenFileBase64` is a global variable that holds a base64-encoded version of a PowerPoint presentation file.

Reviewer: This is more of a question: we often use "you" and "your add-in" interchangeably". Is there any sort of standard for when to favor one or the other?
```suggestion
Your add-in inserts slides from another PowerPoint presentation into the current presentation with the [Presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.presentation#insertslidesfrombase64-base64file--options-) method. The following is a simple example in which all of the slides from the source presentation are inserted at the beginning of the current presentation and the inserted slides keep the formatting of the source file. Note that `chosenFileBase64` is a global variable that holds a base64-encoded version of a PowerPoint presentation file.
```

> You insert slides from another PowerPoint presentation into the current presentation with the [Presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.presentation#insertslidesfrombase64-base64file--options-) method. The following is a simple example in which all of the slides from the source presentation are inserted at the beginning of the current presentation and the inserted slides keep the formatting of the source file. Note that `chosenFileBase64` is a global variable that holds a base64-encoded version of a PowerPoint presentation file.

Reviewer: FYI, that link anchor doesn't work due to recent OPS changes. Since this was a breaking change, @ElizabethSamuel-MSFT is working with OPS to get the anchors reverted to the old format (which will make this link work once more).

```javascript
async function insertAllSlides() {
  await PowerPoint.run(async function(context) {
    context.presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64(chosenFileBase64);
    await context.sync();
  });
}
```

> You can control some aspects of the insertion result, including where the slides are inserted and whether they get the source or target formatting (and more), by passing an [InsertSlideOptions](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.insertslideoptions) object as a second parameter to `insertSlidesFromBase64`. The following is an example. About this code, note:

Reviewer: Nit: I think the "and more" is unnecessary because saying "including" implies a subset.
```suggestion
You can control some aspects of the insertion result, including where the slides are inserted and whether they get the source or target formatting , by passing an [InsertSlideOptions](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.insertslideoptions) object as a second parameter to `insertSlidesFromBase64`. The following is an example. About this code, note:
```

> - There are two possible values for the `formatting` property: "UseDestinationTheme" and "KeepSourceFormatting". Optionally, you can use the full name of the `InsertSlideFormatting` enum, such as `PowerPoint.InsertSlideFormatting.useDestinationTheme`.

Reviewer: Minor clarification. I believe the "enum's value" would be the string literal.
```suggestion
- There are two possible values for the `formatting` property: "UseDestinationTheme" and "KeepSourceFormatting". Optionally, you can use the `InsertSlideFormatting` enum, (e.g., `PowerPoint.InsertSlideFormatting.useDestinationTheme`).
```

> - The function will insert the slides from the source presentation immediately after the slide specified by the `targetSlideId` property. The value of this property is a string of one of three possible forms: ***nnn*#**, **#*mmmmmmmmm***, or ***nnn*#*mmmmmmmmm***, where *nnn* is the slide's ID (typically 3 digits) and *mmmmmmmmm* is the slide's creation ID (typically 9 digits). Some examples are `267#763315295`, `267#`, and `#763315295`.

Reviewer: Should we expose this implementation detail? We go into how to programmatically get the slide ID later, which seems like the only real way to get that value. Maybe we should forgo actual values entirely and use a variable like "mySlideId" in this example.

Author: I was confused by this, until Onur told me the possible forms. So, I don't think we can do without this. If we postponed this detail, it would only be for maybe one or two steps anyway, so I think its best to just present it as soon as we start talking about the IDs.

```javascript
async function insertSlidesDestinationFormatting() {
  await PowerPoint.run(async function(context) {
    context.presentation
    .insertSlidesFromBase64(chosenFileBase64,
                            {
                                formatting: "UseDestinationTheme",
                                targetSlideId: "267#"
                            }
                          );
    await context.sync();
  });
}
```

Of course, you typically won't know at coding time the ID or creation ID of the target slide. More commonly, an add-in will ask users to select the target slide. The following steps show how to get the ***nnn*#** ID of the currently selected slide and use it as the target slide.

> 1. Create a function that gets the ID of the currently selected slide by using the [Office.context.document.getSelectedDataAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.document#getSelectedDataAsync_coercionType__callback_) method of the Common JavaScript APIs. The following is an example. Note that the call to `getSelectedDataAsync` is embedded in a Promise-returning function. It is a good practice to do this because the Promise-returning function is easy to call (and await) inside the `run()` method of an application-specific API. By awaiting the Promise-returning function, you are assured that the callback function of the Common API method has completed before the next line in the `run()` method executes.

Reviewer: Should we link to this documentation about this pattern? https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/develop/asynchronous-programming-in-office-add-ins?view=powerpoint-js-preview#wrap-common-apis-in-promise-returning-functions
That would free this section for having to explain the purpose of Promise wrapping.

      return new OfficeExtension.Promise<string>(function (resolve, reject) {
        Office.context.document.getSelectedDataAsync(Office.CoercionType.SlideRange, function (asyncResult) {
          try {
            if (asyncResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Failed) {
              reject(console.error(asyncResult.error.message));
            } else {
              resolve(asyncResult.value.slides[0].id);
            }
          }
          catch (error) {
            reject(console.log(error));
          }
        });
      })
    }
    ```

1. Call your new function inside the [PowerPoint.run()](/javascript/api/powerpoint#PowerPoint_run_batch_) of the main function and pass the ID that it returns (concatenated with the "#" symbol) as the value of the `targetSlideId` property of the `InsertSlideOptions` parameter. The following is an example.

    ```javascript
    async function insertAfterSelectedSlide() {
        await PowerPoint.run(async function(context) {

            const selectedSlideID = await getSelectedSlideID();

            context.presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64(chosenFileBase64, {
                formatting: "UseDestinationTheme",

>                 targetSlideId: selectedSlideID + "#"

Reviewer: This seems like a big problem with the APIs if users are expected to translate IDs to work with different APIs.

>                 targetSlideId: selectedSlideID + "#"

Reviewer: I'm also a little confused since the ID doesn't necessary end with a `#`, according to the earlier description.

Author: There are some forms of the value that don't end with the "#". Specifically, the ones that use or include the creation ID, but the only ID that can be obtained programmatically is the main ID and it always ends with a # when used in this API.

        });
    }
    ```

### Selecting which slides to insert

You can also use the [InsertSlideOptions](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.insertslideoptions) parameter to control which slides from the source presentation are inserted. You do this by assigning an array of the source presentation's slide IDs to the `sourceSlideIds` property. The following is an example that inserts four slides. Note that each string in the array must follow one or another of the patterns used for the `targetSlideId` property.

```javascript
async function insertAfterSelectedSlide() {
    await PowerPoint.run(async function(context) {
        const selectedSlideID = await getSelectedSlideID();
        context.presentation.insertSlidesFromBase64(chosenFileBase64, {
            formatting: "UseDestinationTheme",
            targetSlideId: selectedSlideID + "#",
            sourceSlideIds: ["267#763315295", "256#", "#926310875", "1270#"]
        });

        await context.sync();
    });
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> The slides will be inserted in the same relative order in which they appear in the source presentation, regardless of the order in which they appear in the array.

> There is no practical way that users can discover the ID or creation ID of a slide in the source presentation. Also, because *a slide can be manually copied from one presentation to another* any way, so you should usually avoid designing the add-in in such a way that the user must have the source presentation open in addition to the target presentation (where the add-in is running). For these reasons, you can really only use the `sourceSlideIds` property when either you know the source IDs at coding time or your add-in can retrieve them at runtime from some data source. Because users cannot be expected to memorize slide IDs, you also need a way to enable the user to select slides, perhaps by title or by an image, and then correlate each title or image with the slide's ID.

Reviewer: I'm unclear why the manual copy affects this scenario. Does that matter? It seems like the real challenge is that these IDs are not easily discoverable.

> Accordingly, the `sourceSlideIds` property is primarily used in presentation template scenarios: There is a small number of known presentations which serve as pools of slides that can be inserted by using the add-in. In such a scenario, either you or the customer must create and maintain a data source that correlates a selection criterion (such as titles or images) with slide IDs.

Reviewer: This bit about the template scenario really answers the "why" of these APIs. Is there a way to pull this information more prominent? We should also consider a template slide PNP.

Author: Good point. I'll moved it up to the 2nd paragraph of the article.

## Delete slides

> You can delete a slide by getting a reference to the [Slide](/javascript/api/powerpoint/powerpoint.slide) object that represents the slide and call the `Slide.delete` method. The following is an example in which the 4th slide (with zero-based index "3") is deleted.

Reviewer: Can we move the "zero-based" note into a code comment? I think that would help the code stand alone better.

# Insert and delete slides in a PowerPoint presentation

A PowerPoint add-in can insert slides from one presentation into the current presentation by using PowerPoint's application-specific JavaScript library. You can control whether the inserted slides keep the formatting of the source presentation or the formatting of the target presentation. You can also delete slides from the presentation.

> The slide insertion APIs are primarily used in presentation template scenarios: There is a small number of known presentations which serve as pools of slides that can be inserted by using the add-in. In such a scenario, either you or the customer must create and maintain a data source that correlates a selection criterion (such as slide titles or images) with slide IDs. The APIs can also be used in scenarios where the user can insert slides from any arbitrary presentation, but in that scenario the user is effectively limited to inserting *all* the slides from the source presentation. See [Selecting which slides to insert](#selecting-which-slides-to-insert) for more information about this.

Reviewer: I _think_ this should be plural, though it's dark and I'm questioning everything.
```suggestion
The slide insertion APIs are primarily used in presentation template scenarios: There are a small number of known presentations which serve as pools of slides that can be inserted by using the add-in. In such a scenario, either you or the customer must create and maintain a data source that correlates a selection criterion (such as slide titles or images) with slide IDs. The APIs can also be used in scenarios where the user can insert slides from any arbitrary presentation, but in that scenario the user is effectively limited to inserting *all* the slides from the source presentation. See [Selecting which slides to insert](#selecting-which-slides-to-insert) for more information about this.
```

> The slide insertion APIs are primarily used in presentation template scenarios: There is a small number of known presentations which serve as pools of slides that can be inserted by using the add-in. In such a scenario, either you or the customer must create and maintain a data source that correlates a selection criterion (such as slide titles or images) with slide IDs. The APIs can also be used in scenarios where the user can insert slides from any arbitrary presentation, but in that scenario the user is effectively limited to inserting *all* the slides from the source presentation. See [Selecting which slides to insert](#selecting-which-slides-to-insert) for more information about this.

Reviewer: A couple minor grammar suggestions:
```suggestion
The slide insertion APIs are primarily used in presentation template scenarios: There is a small number of known presentations which serve as pools of slides that can be inserted by the add-in. In such a scenario, either you or the customer must create and maintain a data source that correlates the selection criterion (such as slide titles or images) with slide IDs. The APIs can also be used in scenarios where the user can insert slides from any arbitrary presentation, but in that scenario the user is effectively limited to inserting *all* the slides from the source presentation. See [Selecting which slides to insert](#selecting-which-slides-to-insert) for more information about this.
```
